# simplysortingsupplies

Simply Sorting Supplies is an inventory application that tracks the number of different items. After logging in or registering, a user will be taken to the home page which list all the items currently saved in the database. At first glance, each item in the list will show the item name, amount, and image which is the main information the user will need to see. The user has the option to add an item through the add button at the bottom right. They can also update an item by selecting an item from the list. Another feature that this application offers is to text the user a notification when an item reaches a zero amount. The "Add Notifications" tab in the navigation bar will send the user to a page that allows them to enable this feature. This page will also give the option for the user to add their phone number to the database. The last tab of the navigation bar is a logout option which safely logs the user out and takes them back to the login page. The login page has a "Forgot Password" link. If the user's selects this link they will be taken to a page that request their email. An email will be sent to their inbox which will allow the user to reset their password. The application has a simple layout and theme which stays consistent throughout. It offers features that support the user's needs such as sending notifications and resetting their password. All the information the users needs is displayed on the main page with quick and easy steps to get to their next objective whether that is updating an item or adding notifications.

My first strategy was to focus on the user's needs and look at other mobile applications for inspiration. After I started to develop the code and design, I switched some of my original ideas to ones that I could accomplish  within my skill level. In future, it is a good idea to adapt to each situation you encounter. When creating this applications, I ran into issues saving the data to the database. To overcome this issue, I researched and reviewed questions and answers other users posted with similar issues. I also watched multiple videos that gave step by step instructions on how to save data to the database. I took information from different sources and combined them until it fit my needs. It took several attempts as I changed and tested my code through the emulator until the application worked as intended. I also came across this issue with different parts of the application, but in the end I was able to accomplish all of my goals for the applications.
